# Research-on-Hematological-Malignancies-Based-on-Bone-Marrow-Microscopic-Images
This thesis builds a large-scale bone marrow microscopy dataset and proposes semi‑supervised stain normalization and pseudo‑label‑enhanced GAN classification methods that enable accurate diagnosis of four hematologic malignancies with minimal labeled data.
Abstract
Hematologic malignancies are critically threatening to human health, and timely detection of hematological malignancies is crucial to the treatment of the disease. Bone marrow cell morphological examination is a key step in the diagnosis of hematological malignancies and an important basis for the prevention and screening of hematological malignancies. It provides an important reference standard for the treatment and recovery of patients. At present, manual detection of bone marrow microscopic images is time-consuming and labor-intensive, and is susceptible to the subjective influence of pathologists during the detection process, causing deviations in the detection results. Deep learning technology can realize efficient automated detection of bone marrow microscopic images and solve the problems existing in manual detection. Deep learning model training relies on a large number of high-quality labeled samples and bone marrow microscopic images will lead to staining differences due to factors such as different laboratory equipment. These two problems greatly affect the performance of deep learning methods. Therefore, this article takes bone marrow microscopic images as the main research object, and the research work includes the following aspects.
This thesis collects and constructs a larger scale bone marrow micrographic image dataset, which comes from 256 confirmed patients, including bone marrow micrographic images of four types of hematologic malignancies, it is a bone marrow micrographic image dataset with larger data size and more types of diseases at this stage.
Aiming at the problem of staining differences in bone marrow micro-images, this thesis proposes a semi-supervised staining normalization method based on the self-attention mechanism with dual decoders, which stains and normalizes the bone marrow micro-images to be used in the subsequent classification task. The method designs a dual-decoder generator structure that enables the model to efficiently learn unlabeled source domain images in an unsupervised manner by enforcing the consistency of the images generated by the two decoders. The model also incorporates a self-attention mechanism and an auxiliary feature extraction network to improve the model coloring performance and robustness. In this thesis, the effectiveness of this thesis's method is verified in two publicly available medical image datasets and bone marrow microscopy image dataset by two types of evaluation metrics, namely, image quality and color consistency. The effectiveness of the method as an image preprocessing step is evaluated in a bone marrow microscopy dataset classification task.
Aiming at the problems of manual detection and difficult access to image data, this thesis proposes a semi-supervised pseudo-label-enhanced generative adversarial network-based hematologic malignancies classification method. Unlike previous methods that rely on cell detection and counting, this thesis's method is based on the bone marrow microscopic images as a whole and achieves the semi-supervised classification task for four common hematologic malignancies. The method in this thesis combines generative adversarial networks and pseudo-label generation techniques to better learn the semantic features of the images through SimCLR in the pre-training phase. This thesis proposes the MixTeacher pseudo-label generation method which introduces a teacher-student network on top of MixMatch to improve the accuracy and robustness of the classification model. This thesis also designs the classifier structure of a global classifier combined with a local classifier and introduces the spatial self-attention mechanism and pixel self-attention mechanism to extract richer features of bone marrow microscopy images. Through experimental validation, this thesis's method outperforms other semi-supervised classification methods in terms of classification accuracy with limited labeling and achieves the classification of four types of hematologic malignancies.

Key Words: Bone marrow micrographs, Image classification, Stain normalization, Self-attention mechanism, Semi-supervised	 
